Well, hello,
and welcome to Advanced HTML5
Media Controllers for
Safari on iOS and Mac OS X.
My name is Jer Noble.
I am a Safari and WebKit engineer.
And today, we're going to talk about
how to make awesome,
accessible controls for
your HTML5 media content.
But first, last year at WWDC,
there were a couple sessions which
covered the basics of JavaScript controls
for HTML5 video and audio.
The video for these sessions is
available on Apple's Developer site.
So if you go to
developer.apple.com/videos,
clicking on the link to WWDC 2010
session videos will get you this page.
And the ones you're interested in
are Delivering Audio and Video with
Web Standards Parts 1 and 2.
These are great presentations,
if I say so myself.
I highly recommend checking them out.
So last year at WWDC was
all about baby steps.
Everything was very new and very
exciting and just a little bit blurry.
And a lot of things have
changed in the last year.
We've added a bunch of new
capabilities to Safari,
and a lot of things have
changed in the HTML5 standard.
And we're going to tell
you all about them today.
But since last year,
we've seen a lot of sites
adopting HTML5 for delivering
video content to their users,
which is fantastic.
But we've also seen a lot of
those same sites only delivering
HTML5 video to browsers reporting
that they are iPads and iPhones.
So this has led people to go to
extreme measures to convince websites
to deliver HTML5 video to them.
In fact,
so far as to say that there's one
popular technology blogger who posted a
multi-page recipe about how to do this,
how to convince websites that
you're browsing from an iPad when
you're on Safari on the desktop.
Needless to say,
we don't think user agent
sniffing is the best of ideas.
It's fragile.
Whenever there's a new device,
you have to change all of your
scripts to parse user agent strings.
And it doesn't really
detect capabilities.
It only detects devices.
So we're going to show you
a better way to do this.
But why is this happening?
Well, page authors want controls
that match the look and feel
of the rest of their website.
They want controls to work on all
browsers and across all platforms.
They want controls to do things that the
default controls can't because otherwise,
You know, why bother?
And somewhere along the way,
a lot of authors got the idea that this
is just something you can't do with HTML.
But today,
we're going to show you how all
of this and more is possible with
HTML5 and standard web technologies.
So, what did you learn today?
We're first going to cover how
to create simple custom controls
with JavaScript and CSS and HTML5.
How to make sure those
controls work for everyone,
no matter what device they're using
or what assistive technologies
they're using to view your site.
And finally,
we're going to cover a little
special effects you can add to your
video elements and your controls.
But first, getting started,
if you'd seen last year's sessions,
and you will recognize these when you
go back and watch the video later,
this is the basic set of API you'll
need to implement a play,
pause button,
and timeline slider for HTML video.
So getting started,
every media element has
a play and a pause event,
somewhat self-explanatory.
You can also query for a
media element's current time,
ask for its duration.
Ask for its duration.
And then while the
media is changing time,
it will emit events occasionally,
such as play when the
user plays your video,
pause when they pause.
And as the movie is playing
or as the user is scrubbing,
it'll emit these time update events.
So how might you use this to make, say,
a general play/pause button?
If you have a button
and has a click handler,
all you need to do is check to see if
the movie is paused or if it's ended,
and if so, play it.
If not, pause it.
That's it.
Just, what is that?
Five lines of code, including braces.
And in addition,
if you want to react to the fact that the
movie is now playing instead of paused,
Three event listeners for the play,
pause,
and ended events is all you'll need
to update your button to say something
different when the user plays the movie,
or when the movie gets to the end of its
timeline and stops playing on its own.
Okay, the next thing you might want
to add is a timeline scrubber.
This is like a slider element that you
can drag back and forth to allow quick,
rapid access to any point in the video.
And last year, this was kind of like a
hard problem to solve.
You had to implement your own slider
to make it work on all browsers.
However, HTML5 and now Safari on iOS
have this input type of range,
which will be represented as a slider.
It's also fully stylable in CSS,
both the thumb and the track.
So anything you could do before
with your own custom slider,
you should also be able
to do with this one.
It has the added benefit of handling
touch events where you might have to
write custom code to do that if you were
implementing your own timeline slider.
And it emits just one event
that you'll need to worry about,
the onChange event.
And when the timeline slider changes,
because the user's dragging it around,
set the video's current time.
And then you can add the slider
to the start time plus-- wait,
what did I say?
Yes.
The value of the slider
times the duration.
Anyway,
this is actually kind of unnecessary.
Set the max value to the duration and
set the min value to the start time,
and all you have to do is pass that
value across to the current time.
Easy as that.
And same thing, as the movie's playing,
you're going to want to react to the
time changing and update your slider,
and listen for the time update event,
and change the value
of the slider to match.
And again,
if you set the min and the max to
the duration and the start time,
it's as easy as just passing
the movie's current time
into the value of the slider.
And that's it.
You have a timeline slider
that works to change the value
of the time in your movie.
Easy peasy.
And like I said earlier,
this range element is now
supported on mobile Safari on iOS.
OK.
Now you've got a play button.
You have a timeline slider.
The next thing you might
want to control is volume.
You have an input range element,
which would easily work for
a volume slider as well.
There is a caveat, however.
On iOS, there is only one volume setting,
and that's the system volume setting.
And the system volume can't
be changed from JavaScript.
You probably don't want it to be changed
from JavaScript to have some website
change your volume to min or max,
and you miss phone calls,
or you're waking up in
the middle of the night.
Either way, bad idea.
So, after I just told you that user agent
sniffing isn't something we endorse,
now we're back to looking at user agent
strings to not change the volume for iOS.
I have a better idea.
So here's your input range element,
just like the last example.
It has a min and a max,
and as you scrub it, it calls set volume.
But in this case,
we're going to set the style
by default to display none.
And we set up our functions
for changing the volume.
We add our event listeners.
And after we're done,
we're going to change the
video's volume to 0.5.
On iOS, nothing will happen.
On the desktop,
This will actually result
in a volume changed event,
which at that point will remove
that display none property.
The volume slider shows up.
Bob's your uncle.
You have a slider that does not
appear on iOS where it won't work and
appears on desktops where it will.
No need for user agent sniffing.
So volume slider, timeline slider,
play button.
You have the basics of a set
of JavaScript video controls.
But the next thing you might
want is to go into full screen.
You have some great content.
You'd love to display it on
the entire screen at once.
We covered this a little bit last year.
There are two functions you should
know about for the HTML media element,
WebKit enter full screen
and WebKit exit full screen.
We'll take the video into
and out of full screen.
And when these functions are called,
they'll emit WebKit begin
full screen and WebKit end.
So you can react to changes
in the full screen state.
This works on Safari on iOS,
Safari on the Mac, Safari on Windows.
And on all these platforms,
we provide great default.
Connections.
You can use the default controls
appropriate to the platform.
On iOS, they're touch sensitive.
On the desktop, they're just gorgeous.
And videos on the iPhone will always
play in this full screen mode.
So, so far.
It's a great ability to take your
video into fullscreen and show off your
content on these great monitors we have.
However, we got a lot of feedback
after last year's session.
People kept wanting to know,
how do I get these custom controls
you're talking about into fullscreen?
And we would say, sorry,
we only take the video into fullscreen.
We don't take anything else.
But I'm pleased to announce
that in Safari Online,
you can now take any
element into fullscreen,
which will bring that element
and all of its children,
all of their style, all of their display,
into fullscreen mode.
And when you're in fullscreen mode,
you have complete DOM access just
like you did in the in-page mode.
So you can add children, move children,
change styles, react to events.
Users can click buttons, slide things.
All of these controls that you
will have built to make your video
have a great experience will also
be present in fullscreen mode.
Now,
the basis of this support in Safari is
a proposed specification from Mozilla.
So if you want to read more
about this fullscreen mode
and the development of it,
check out Mozilla's wiki, the URL here.
Okay, so every element has a method
called WebKitRequestFullscreen,
which tells the document, hey,
I want this element to
go into fullscreen mode.
This element, all of its children,
all that stuff.
And the document has a
host of new APIs as well.
You can check to see what the
current fullscreen element is.
You can ask whether or not the
document is in fullscreen mode.
And when you're in fullscreen mode,
you can ask to see whether or
not keyboard input is allowed.
And as the web page transitions
into and out of fullscreen state,
it'll emit this fullscreen change event,
which you can listen to
to update your controls.
And at any point,
you can request the document
cancel out of fullscreen.
On user press, end of a movie, whatever.
There are also a couple
of CSS pseudo-classes
you'll need to know about.
The first one applies to the element
that is currently fullscreen.
So you could style it completely
differently when it's in
fullscreen mode versus not.
This next pseudo class applies
to the document which contains
the fullscreen element.
And between these two things,
you should be able to apply a
completely separate set of style rules
for your page when in fullscreen mode.
There are, however,
a couple of requirements
to using this API.
The first and biggest is that going into
fullscreen must begin with a user action,
either a mouse press or a key click,
or key click or mouse press.
The other requirement is that an iframe,
if it has content that it wants
to take into fullscreen mode,
must have a WebKitAllowFullscreen
attribute set.
But between those two things,
those are the requirements for taking
something into fullscreen mode.
So how might this work?
Well, you have a button.
It has an event handler.
First thing you'll do is check to see
if the current fullscreen element is
the element you want to take fullscreen.
In that case, cancel out.
Otherwise, request that element goes in.
And that's it.
That's a fullscreen
button in one snippet.
And additionally,
if you want to react to the
fact that the user has gone
into and out of fullscreen mode,
just listen for the WebKit fullscreen
change event and check to see what
happened and react accordingly.
However, this is available right
now only on Safari Online.
So you'll want to fall back to
a different fullscreen mode,
perhaps, on platforms that don't
support this new API.
So to do so is as easy as
checking to see if your element
has a WebKit fullscreen method.
And if so, use the new API.
If not, fall back to a different
browser-specific fullscreen mode,
or perhaps an in-window,
full-window mode.
There are some caveats, however,
like there always are.
This spec is an act of development.
It is just a proposal,
and though we've implemented
it here in Safari,
it's likely to change in the future.
So you should keep this in mind.
Also, when entering into fullscreen mode,
we disable most keyboard input.
For security reasons,
we don't allow the users
to press alphanumeric keys
when they're in fullscreen.
You still have command keys, arrow keys,
spacebar, other things you might need to
implement some kind of run-and-shoot
video game in fullscreen mode.
but alphanumeric keys are disallowed.
And also, if for some reason your
fullscreen request is rejected,
there is no error or event
that is thrown in response.
But with the information
we've given you here today,
you should be able to accurately
know when your fullscreen request
will be acted on or denied.
So, to demo this and everything
we've talked about so far,
I'd like to invite Eric up to show
you how this works in practice.
So, what we have here is a basic video
player using exactly the code
that Jer just walked you through.
You press the play button,
it begins to play.
We don't have any volume,
but I guess we don't need it right now.
You can drag the slider.
Again, this is an input type of range,
as you can probably see,
because we didn't change
the style very much.
There's a simple button
to mute and unmute.
You can see the volume change
events are being fired there.
So here we have a basic-- well,
actually not a basic controller,
a full-featured controller using just a
little bit of code that Jer showed you.
OK.
The next thing you'll want to worry
about after you've made your own
custom controls is accessibility.
So why?
First things first,
you'll want to maximize your audience.
And this is something that actually
I heard during a Google I/O presentation,
that the number of internet users
in the United States using an
assistive browsing device when
browsing the web is a larger number,
larger in population,
than the entire online
population of Canada.
So the number of people out
there who need to be able to
have an accessible experience
with browsing your site is huge.
So it's something to keep in mind.
Also, you may be under some kind of legal
requirement to have your site be
accessible for a variety of reasons.
But finally,
it's just the right thing to do.
Denying a large group of
people access to your site,
you want to let as many
people in as possible.
So, first thing to consider,
we're going to briefly cover this,
touch events.
There's a lot of people
here with iPads and iPhones,
and none of those iPads
and iPhones has a mouse.
So, anytime you're developing a
custom JavaScript controller,
you need to worry about touch events.
So, generally mapping, touch start,
mouse down, touch end, mouse up.
Touch move, mouse move,
and there's really no
corollary to touch cancel,
but if something interrupts your
user in the middle of a gesture,
you want to handle that one as well.
And if you're doing super advanced things
with gestures in your video player,
you might want to use gesture start,
change, and end,
which are fired when the user uses
more than one finger in a gesture.
So, if you want to have a volume knob
that the user actually rotates,
this is what you're looking for.
Okay, put that out of the way.
There's another thing
you'll want to know about,
and that's VoiceOver.
Now, VoiceOver is a screen reader that's
built into both iOS and Mac OS X.
And support for VoiceOver is
also built into Safari.
And this support is based on the
Accessible Rich Internet Applications,
or ARIA, specification.
So what does this look like?
Well, first,
here's a non-accessible set of controls.
You have a div here that
when the user clicks on it,
plays and pauses the movie.
Maybe it even changes state and
says pause when it's playing
and playing when it's paused.
You also have a div which represents the
progress through the video as a width.
So, so far, great,
except when VoiceOver sees this content,
it has no way to know that this
is a play and pause button.
It has no way to know that this
is a progress meter underneath it.
So how do we let assistive devices like
VoiceOver know more about our controls?
Turns out it's really easy.
For the button, you would add something
called a role attribute and
set the attribute to button.
And after that, as the screen reader is
browsing through your DOM,
it sees that.
Notice it's the button.
And now it can allow the user to
navigate through your controls,
interact with them without using a mouse.
Again, with the progress meter,
set the role to progress bar,
and it knows that is a progress
bar and can relay that information
back to the user through voiceover.
More roles are available,
such as application and slider.
And for all of these roles and the
values that are attached to them,
please take a look at the
ARIA specification found
at the W3C's website.
So, to demonstrate the accessibility
features of Safari and how you would
build it into your custom controller,
I'm going to ask Eric to come
up and give you a short demo.
What we have here is your
same basic controller.
We can see we can start it.
We can stop it.
We can scrub.
But let's see what a user of
VoiceOver experiences when they
interact with the same page.
VoiceOver on Safari, custom controller.
So we'll turn on VoiceOver.
Let me turn it down a little bit.
And we'll navigate down into the page.
And VoiceOver sees that
we have an element here.
It knows it's called play.
You are currently on a text
element inside of HTML content.
But it sees it as a text element.
So it knows that it's an element.
It knows it has -- well,
it says that it's a play element.
But when we try to interact with it with
the VoiceOver keyboard gesture -- Slider,
Fs.
It doesn't know anything about it.
We'll go back to it.
So a user who's using VoiceOver doesn't
have any way to interact with it.
Here it sees that we have a slider,
and we can interact with it.
But again, VoiceOver doesn't know
how it's being used.
So while the user can interact with it,
if they can't see the screen,
they aren't actually able
to do anything with it.
So let's go in here.
And fix this up.
As Jer said,
telling VoiceOver that these things
are buttons is as easy as adding
role equals button to the div.
So let's save it.
We'll go back.
Reload our page.
Turn VoiceOver back on.
VoiceOver on Safari.
Interact with HTML content.
Interact with button.
Now, it sees that it's a button.
Press button.
And, in fact, from the keyboard,
I can turn it on and off.
Press button.
But you can see that while
we're changing the title,
when VoiceOver pushes the button,
VoiceOver isn't announcing it,
because now it's a button.
And so it's not reading the...
"It's not reading the content,
but luckily that's also easy to fix.
We'll just give it a title."
So we can say title equals play.
Let's give all our elements titles.
Timeline.
All right, so let's turn on voiceover
and see if it actually works.
VoiceOver on Safari, Custom Controller,
and Play button.
Okay, let's interact with the page.
Okay,
now it sees that it's a play button.
[Transcript missing]
We changed that state by,
in the JavaScript,
when we get a playing event,
we change the class name,
which makes CSS change its title.
So we'll do the same thing here.
When we get the play and pause,
load it again.
Turn on voiceover.
Voice over on.
Interact with HTML.
So now.
Interact with press play button.
So when we go off it.
timeline slide pause button now it sees
it's a play button it sees it's play
button press pause button so that works
well press play button timeline slide
interact with slider we while we can we
can control it again voiceover doesn't
know stop pause press pause button
play button voiceover off so there's
one more thing that we should do and
we will add an aria attribute to the
Slider.
Whenever the time changes,
set the ARIA value as text to
the current time as a string,
which, again, lets ARIA know more
information about that slider.
Reload our page.
VoiceOver Back On.
VoiceOver On Safari, play button.
Press play button.
And now.
0.6 seconds, timeline slider.
Interact with slider.
4.6 seconds.
So now.
6.0 seconds, pause button.
Press pause button.
So with just a little
bit of extra markup,
we've -- You are currently on the
button inside of HTML content.
VoiceOver Off.
Thank you, VoiceOver.
So, you know, I mean,
It's sort of a laugh for
us because we can see it,
but somebody that is trying to
interact with your media content,
they can get a lot out of it.
By implementing a custom controller,
you lose all of the accessibility
that's built into the default controls,
which are fully accessible.
And so you can see that just by adding a
little bit of extra markup and a little
bit of extra logic to your JavaScript,
you're able to restore the full
functionality of your media controller.
There are similar ARIA attributes
that you can and should add to the
rest of your page to make the other
custom UI and markup accessible.
Thank you.
Okay, back to slides.
Okay, so now you have a fully accessible
custom set of controls for
your HTML5 media content.
But there's something else you can add,
and that's subtitles.
So this is an area of active work
within the World Wide Web Consortium.
And on this front today,
we have good news.
And that news is what working
group has decided on a file format.
There you go.
Okay.
The file format they are
proposing is called WebVTT.
It's based on the SRT file format,
and for detailed instructions
about the format they've chosen,
check out the What Working Groups
website at whatwg.org.
Concurrently,
the W3C has been working on the rendering
of text tracks into your video content.
And one works really well with the other.
You have WebVTT to load subtitles
into your video element.
Here's the catch.
No browser yet supports WebVTT in
specific and time text in general.
There's a lot of work in
WebKit to enable this,
but no shipping browser supports it.
[Transcript missing]
You add some track elements.
In this case,
we're going to add two track elements,
an English and a Spanish subtitle track.
They have a kind, a source,
just like a source on a video element,
a source language,
and a user visible label.
And that's it.
That's what you need to get your
subtitles overlaid on your video.
So what does the API look like, though,
if you're doing this from code?
Well,
a given text track will have a kind.
And that kind can be,
according to the spec, subtitles,
captions,
descriptions for descriptive audio,
chapters for chapter-based navigation,
and a generic one called metadata,
which is not meant to be displayed,
but is very useful if you're
writing your own custom scripts.
There's a user-visible label
for things like chapter one,
the language of the track,
perhaps the kind, in this case,
director's commentary.
There's a language string,
which is some ISO code that can be
anywhere from an EN to the type of
German spoken Austria to the type
of Spanish spoken in Latin America.
The track will have a ready state,
which lets you know whether or not
the resources backing that track
have been completely loaded yet.
and a mode so you can switch these tracks
on and off at will from JavaScript.
Additionally,
they have two sets of arrays,
one set of cues that is all
the cues that are in the track,
and a second array of those
cues which are currently active,
meaning their start times and end times
enclose the current time of the movie.
And when this list of
active cues changes,
the track element will emit a cue
change event you can listen to for
doing your own custom scripting.
Okay, like I said,
there are a couple of arrays of queues,
and those queues have an
API of their very own.
First, they all have a back pointer
to the track which owns them.
They have a unique ID that lets
you target each queue individually,
if you so desire.
It has a start time, like I said,
and an end time,
which defines those areas,
which those areas of the timeline
in which that track will be active.
There's also a property
called pauseOnExit.
So if a queue has
pauseOnExit set to true,
and the movie, while it's playing back,
hits the end time of that track,
the movie will pause.
And the reason for this
is so you can do accurate,
very accurate pausing at
certain times of your movie.
So if you need, for some reason,
the movie to stop at
a very specific time,
this is what you'd use it for.
As they become active and inactive,
they will emit a enter and exit event.
And you can always ask a queue for its
raw source with get queue as source,
or you can get a document fragment back
of parsed HTML from get queue as HTML.
Finally,
if you want to implement your own parser,
if you don't like the web VTT format,
you have a lot of things
that are in time text,
you can make these tracks up from scratch
with a mutable text track by adding cues
in one at a time that you've made from
parsing out a file of your very own.
Okay, but we talked a lot about captions.
This is the header of my first slide.
But this isn't all about captions,
of course.
It's about time text in general.
And in specific,
it's about any text that has
to occur at a specific time.
Also, video is not easily searchable.
When Google spiders your website,
it's not going to look through and
do a speech-to-text transform on
all the tracks in your movie to
get backlinks and allow people who
are searching for a specific phrase
to go be directed to your website.
However,
they will spider your text tracks.
And so if you want to pull
people into your website,
this is a great way to do it.
Add subtitles to all of your videos.
Also, translating your videos in
different languages is pretty hard.
You have to find a voice actor,
and we know how hard it is
to work with those guys.
I have some voice actor friends.
They'll get the joke when
they listen to this later.
Anyway.
But text tracks are inherently
machine translatable.
You can just drop one into Google,
and it'll spit one out in
whatever language you ask for.
And so you can broaden your
audience to speakers of many,
many other languages just by adding
a few text tracks to your video,
and then translating them with
Google or any other translation
tool into a plethora of languages.
And finally,
text tracks are all about timing.
If you want an event to happen
at a specific time in a movie,
text tracks are what you'll need.
And to demo the use of text tracks and
subtitles with this polyfill library,
Eric's going to give you a short demo.
What we have here is an
extremely boring demo.
It's a video element.
Actually, let's look at the source first.
"Let's make this bigger
so people can see it."
So we've got a very plain page.
We've got a video element.
Just like in the slide,
a pair of source elements pointing
to two alternate video encodings
and a single track element.
Again, we have captions in this,
so we have kind equals,
"Kind equals captions.
We point to the VTT file.
It's in English,
so we label it as English.
And then we also include,
because this version of Safari doesn't
support the track element natively,
we include a reference to the
Captionator, JavaScript Library.
And then when the body loads, we...
"And what we end up with is captions.
And suddenly we have all of the benefits
that Jer was just talking about.
Something that he didn't talk about
and that we're not going to do here
because it would be a bit to set
up is we could also mark up this
page so that VoiceOver automatically
reads out the captions.
Now, it obviously wouldn't make
sense for a page playing in
English with English captions
Captions to be read out,
but if they were in a different
language or if they were a
different type of text track,
we could easily hook it up so that
VoiceOver would read those out.
And we didn't have to do anything.
We're using HTML5 standard markup.
It's not supported in
this version of Safari.
In fact, it's not supported in
any shipping browser,
but you can begin to use it now.
And this JavaScript library is
written in such a way that when this
same page gets loaded in a browser
that does have native support,
it will just back out of the way and
let the native support take over.
So you can start to use
this really exciting,
I think, new HTML5 feature in
currently shipping browsers.
-Jer, I have a couple of demos
to show you myself.
So I promised you a
couple of flashy things,
and so we're going to make some of
these demos you'd seen previously
a little bit more flashy.
First of all,
So these controls are very similar
to the controls in the first demo.
But one thing we've done was
replaced all the buttons with SVG.
And so as we zoom in,
the element looks just as
good at this zoom level as
it does in the original one.
And so using SVG for things like
icons is a great way to make sure
that your controls look great on
every platform and whatever zoom
level your user is currently using.
So that's one thing.
I just wanted to demonstrate
that the sliders are incredibly
easily stylable in CSS.
So we've replaced the circular
thumb with a square one that
changes colors as you drag it.
One more thing you can add to
spice up your video controls.
So here's your mute button
and your volume slider,
and when I reload the page,
[Transcript missing]
And finally,
that's what it should look like.
So here we have, in fullscreen mode,
we have our own custom
controls along the bottom.
That we can bring into
fullscreen mode with us.
OK, so that's the fancy controls demo.
But we said a lot of
things about text tracks.
And one of the key features of
text tracks is chapter support.
So if we have a video here and you want
to easily navigate between chapters,
it's as easy as adding a select
element with a bunch of options in it.
You pull from the chapter file.
To let your users easily
navigate around your video.
And the best part is,
does this machine have a simulator?
Yes, it does.
So if your user is using a-- oop--
spinning beach ball of death,
then--
Let's change this to an iPad,
and we'll rotate it so we
get more screen real estate.
Drop this guy on it.
And when you use this tool
to do chapter navigation,
you get platform-specific interface
to pick and choose chapters without
you having to do any extra work.
OK.
So that's that demo.
What more can we add?
Well, we have chapters.
Let's add some subtitles and show
you how to switch between them.
So here's that same demo,
except now we also are able to switch
between different subtitle formats.
Because it's just normal HTML content,
we're able to completely style
differently the representation
of those subtitles.
In this case,
we gave it a bit of a drop shadow and
a background color that didn't take
up the whole width of the screen.
It's hard to see how something so simple,
so thin, so fly-- And we can switch
between them on the fly.
And because it's just HTML content,
it supports all the UTF character
sets that normal HTML content would.
--we learned so much from it and
developed so many amazing technologies
and all the applications-- Go back.
So finally, this is the real flashy demo.
We talked about how you can choose
between subtitles and chapters and
captions and audio descriptions
and something called metadata.
So metadata is anything that isn't
covered by those top ones and anything
you'd want to use in your script.
So what we did is we took a file
and filled it with Base64-encoded
keyframes from this movie.
And now that we have that file,
just in the same way that subtitles
will pop up and disappear as
you navigate through the movie,
we can implement a timeline slider
that shows you where in the movie
you will be as you scrub around.
And so if you have a really long movie,
one that probably takes
a long time to load,
This is a great way to indicate to your
users where they'll be when they let go.
So without having to load
the movie in the foreground,
you can let them scrub to a
specific time they want and not
spend a bunch of time trying to
load that piece of the media in.
And the best part is, of course,
just like all the rest of this stuff,
it just works in fullscreen
mode like anything else.
And with just a couple
simple lines of CSS,
we can completely restyle the way our
controls work and even maybe add a
couple extra more features in here.
Well, I'm sorry.
Add a couple more
graphical features in here.
So, like, maybe a cool-looking gradient
on the controls and perhaps,
like, some shadows on things.
Whatever you can do in CSS,
you can do in page,
you can do in fullscreen mode as well.
So, for more information about all
the things we talked about today,
please talk to Vicki Murley.
She's our Safari Technologies Evangelist.
And also,
there's a whole lot of information
up on the Safari Dev Center on
the developer page at apple.com.
And the Apple Developer Forums,
which I'm sure you guys
already know about,
are a great resource for figuring
out how things work as well.
There's going to be a session
on HTTP live streaming.
If you're interested in doing
that with your video coming up,
let's see, what, at 4:30 today.
There's going to be another session
on understanding and optimizing
web graphics on Wednesday.
And finally, all the things you found
out about accessibility,
you can get more in-depth
information for accessibility
and automation on iOS on Friday.
There's a lab directly after the session
downstairs on HTML5 audio and video.
There's going to be a live
streaming lab on Wednesday,
and Wednesday is also full
of open labs for Safari.
So come on by and ask any questions
you didn't get answered today.
But in summary,
I hope that this allows you guys to
come up with some really fantastic
looking controls for all of your content.
And I also hope that the fullscreen
feature is really exciting,
as exciting to you as it is to me.
And the subtitles and text tracks,
I really hope you start
adopting those right now.
It's possible with these
JavaScript polyfill libraries,
and it will only get better in the
future as browsers take over more
of the work from the JavaScript.
And finally, making your video
accessible to everybody.
I hope that we've shown you how
and shown you how important it is.